.TH SECDAT-FUSE 1 "2026-06-23" "secdat 0.2.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
secdat-fuse \- mount selected secdat keys as read-only files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B secdat-fuse
[\-d DIR|\-\-dir DIR] [\-\-domain DIR] [\-s STORE|\-\-store STORE]
[\-p GLOBPATTERN|\-\-pattern GLOBPATTERN]...
[\-x GLOBPATTERN|\-\-pattern-exclude GLOBPATTERN]...
[\-\-sandbox-injectable] [\-\-require-key KEY]... [\-\-dry-run] [\-\-json] [\-\-size-metadata] [\-f|\-\-foreground] [\-\-debug]
.I MOUNTPOINT
[\-\-
.I CMD
.RI [ ARGS ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B secdat-fuse
is an optional FUSE 3 helper built only when
.B secdat
is configured with
.BR \-\-enable-fuse .
It exposes the selected visible keys as read-only files under
.IR MOUNTPOINT .
File reads decrypt values through the public
.B libsecdat
SDK; the helper does not read store internals directly.
File metadata reports size 0 by default so metadata lookup does not read or decrypt secret values.
.PP
The helper is intentionally read-only. It does not support writes, creates, deletes, renames, chmod, chown, or truncation through the mounted filesystem.
.PP
When
.I CMD
is provided after
.I MOUNTPOINT
and
.BR \-\- ,
the helper mounts in a child foreground FUSE process, waits for readiness, runs
.IR CMD ,
unmounts with
.BR fusermount3 " " \-u ,
and then waits for the mount process to exit. Command mode returns the command status, except that cleanup failure after a successful command returns failure.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dir DIR
Set the base directory used for domain resolution.
.TP
.B \-\-domain DIR
Require one exact registered domain root instead of normal ancestor-based discovery.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-store STORE
Select the store namespace inside the resolved domain.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pattern GLOBPATTERN
Expose matching keys. May be repeated; repeated include patterns are ORed together.
.TP
.B \-x, \-\-pattern-exclude GLOBPATTERN
Exclude matching keys. May be repeated; exclude patterns are applied after include filtering.
.TP
.B \-\-sandbox-injectable
Expose only keys whose effective sandbox injection policy allows bulk selection.
.TP
.B \-\-require-key KEY
Fail before dry-run output or mounting unless
.I KEY
remains selected after all filters. May be repeated.
.TP
.B \-\-dry-run
Print the mountpoint and selected file names without mounting or reading secret values.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Write dry-run output as JSON. Requires
.BR \-\-dry-run .
.TP
.B \-\-size-metadata
Report real file sizes by reading secret values during metadata lookup. This makes stat-like operations decrypt plaintext, and repeated metadata calls may repeat that work because FUSE caching is disabled.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-foreground
Keep the FUSE process in the foreground.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable FUSE debug output.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show usage.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print the secdat-fuse version.
.SH SECURITY
Mounting secrets as files exposes plaintext values through normal file reads. With
.BR \-\-size-metadata ,
plaintext is also read transiently for file metadata requests. Use a private mountpoint, leave
.B allow_other
disabled, and unmount promptly after the consuming process no longer needs the files. The helper disables kernel caching for the mounted filesystem, but plaintext can still exist transiently in process memory and reader buffers.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
secdat-fuse --dir ~/project --pattern 'APP_*' --dry-run /tmp/secdat-app
secdat-fuse --dir ~/project --pattern 'APP_*' --require-key APP_TOKEN --dry-run --json /tmp/secdat-app
secdat-fuse --dir ~/project --pattern 'APP_*' --foreground /tmp/secdat-app
secdat-fuse --dir ~/project --pattern 'APP_*' --size-metadata /tmp/secdat-app
secdat-fuse --dir ~/project --pattern 'APP_*' /tmp/secdat-app -- sh -c 'cat /tmp/secdat-app/APP_TOKEN >/dev/null'
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR secdat (1)
