.TH SECDAT 1 "2026-06-28" "secdat 0.4.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
secdat \- minimal local secret store with domain and store scoping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B secdat
[\-d DIR|\-\-dir DIR] [\-\-domain DIR] [\-s STORE|\-\-store STORE] command [arguments]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B secdat
stores encrypted secret values locally and resolves them through directory-scoped domains and optional store namespaces.

Command-local long options accept unique abbreviations, and required option values accept both
.B --option value
and
.B --option=value
forms. Command-local parsing also honors
.B --
as an explicit end-of-options marker.

Key arguments use the canonical KEYREF syntax:

.B [/ABSOLUTE/DOMAIN/]KEY[:STORE]

When the domain qualifier is present, the trailing slash before
.B KEY
is required. When the qualifiers are omitted,
.B --domain ,
.B --dir
and
.B --store
provide the current resolution context.
Write commands still require a registered domain. If resolution would fall back to the implicit default scope, the write fails.
When a key lookup fails, diagnostics may print close visible key candidates. Because an unknown first operand is valid key lookup syntax, command-name candidates are reported separately as command-intent hints when the fallback operand cannot be used as a key or after that fallback lookup fails. Unknown group subcommands may likewise print close subcommand candidates.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-dir DIR
Set the base directory used for domain resolution.
.TP
.B \-\-domain DIR
Require one exact registered domain root instead of normal ancestor-based discovery.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-store STORE
Select the store namespace inside the resolved domain.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show global help, or combine with a command name for command-local help.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print the secdat version. When built from a Git worktree, also print a short build identifier and append \fB-dirty\fR when the worktree had uncommitted changes at build time.
.SH HELP TOPICS
.TP
.B secdat help usecases
Show workflow-oriented examples across multiple commands.
.TP
.B secdat help concepts
Explain domains, stores, inheritance, local unlocks, local locks, and KEYREF resolution.
.TP
.B secdat help inject
Explain
.B exec --inject
layers, rule kinds, selectors, YAML policy files, and dry-run preflight checks.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B ls [GLOBPATTERN] [\-p GLOBPATTERN|\-\-pattern GLOBPATTERN] [\-x GLOBPATTERN|\-\-pattern-exclude GLOBPATTERN] [\-e|\-\-safe] [\-u|\-\-unsafe] [\-\-metadata] [\-\-bulk-gate] [\-\-json]
List effective keys visible from the current domain view. Repeated include patterns widen the match set, and repeated exclude patterns subtract from it.
.B --metadata
prints key attributes alongside each key, and
.B --bulk-gate
keeps only keys whose bulk_select policy allows
.B include
for bulk-gated selector, pattern, or profile based selection.
Legacy
.BR \-\-sandbox-injectable
is rejected with a hint to use
.BR \-\-bulk-gate .
Use
.B --json
for machine-readable key metadata, including key name, store name, source domain, canonical key reference, safe/unsafe storage mode, and non-secret attributes.
.TP
.B list [\-m|\-\-masked] [\-o|\-\-overridden] [\-O|\-\-orphaned] [\-e|\-\-safe] [\-u|\-\-unsafe] [\-\-bulk-gate]
Inspect current-domain local state. Use
.B --masked
for active tombstones,
.B --orphaned
for tombstones whose parent-visible value is already gone, and
.B --overridden
for local keys that still shadow a parent-visible key.
.TP
.B attr KEYREF [\-\-key-visibility always|unlocked] [\-\-value-access unlocked|always] [\-\-bulk-select exclude|named|include]
Show or update one key's attributes. v1 stores support only
.B key_visibility=always ;
.B key_visibility=unlocked
requires a v2 store and encrypts the key name in the domain-entry graph. Hidden keys can be listed or resolved only while the domain is unlocked; v2 writes that would create an entry also require unlock when hidden entries make absence ambiguous.
.B value_access=unlocked
is encrypted-at-rest and unlock-gated, while
.B value_access=always
is plaintext-at-rest and readable while locked.
.B bulk_select
marks whether bulk-gated selection may include the key. In v2 this combines domain-entry
.B bulk_select_entry
and secret-object
.B bulk_select_value .
The
.B named
is reserved for a future explicit-key bulk path and is excluded by the
.B --bulk-gate
filter; plain pattern filters remain direct visible-key selectors unless that gate is also present. Legacy
.BR \-\-sandbox-inject
is rejected with a hint to use
.BR \-\-bulk-select .
.TP
.B meta get KEYREF
Print non-secret searchable metadata for one visible key as
.B FIELD=VALUE
rows. Secret values are not read.
.TP
.B meta set KEYREF FIELD VALUE
Attach or replace one non-secret searchable metadata field on a current-domain local key. Inherited keys must be materialized locally before their metadata can be changed. v2 hidden keys
.RB ( key_visibility=unlocked )
reject searchable metadata because metadata paths are plaintext key-name indexed.
.TP
.B meta unset KEYREF FIELD
Remove one searchable metadata field from a current-domain local key.
.TP
.B meta search [FIELD|FIELD=GLOB]...
List visible keys whose searchable metadata matches all requested filters. A bare
.B FIELD
filter requires presence of that field, and
.B FIELD=GLOB
uses shell-style glob matching against the metadata value.
.TP
.B meta mark-leaked KEYREF
Store
.B leaked=true
as non-secret searchable metadata on one local key in the target KEYREF's domain chain, then print the same high-risk refresh suggestions as
.B relation suggest-refresh KEYREF .
.TP
.B relation set RELATION_ID --kind KIND --member ROLE=KEYREF --member ROLE=KEYREF [--security TEXT] [--exposure TEXT] [--impact TEXT] [--note TEXT]
Create or replace one non-secret semantic relation with two or more role-named members. Member keys are validated when the relation is written and are stored as canonical KEYREFs. v2 hidden keys cannot be relation members because relation records store canonical KEYREFs. The security, exposure, impact, and note fields describe the non-secret security meaning of the combination, such as whether an id/password pair is sensitive together while an id alone may be public.
.TP
.B relation ls [KEYREF]
List relation identifiers in the current domain/store, optionally limited to relations containing one resolved key.
.TP
.B relation search [FIELD|FIELD=GLOB]...
List relation identifiers whose non-secret relation fields match all requested filters. A bare
.B FIELD
filter requires a non-empty field, and
.B FIELD=GLOB
uses shell-style glob matching. Supported fields are
.BR relation_id ,
.BR kind ,
.BR security ,
.BR exposure ,
.BR impact ,
.BR note ,
.BR member ,
and
.BR member.ROLE ;
member fields match canonical member KEYREFs.
.TP
.B relation suggest-refresh KEYREF
Treat one resolved key as leaked and list high-risk refresh suggestions from registered relation records without reading secret values. Output is tab-separated as
.B high RELATION_ID LEAKED_ROLE REFRESH_ROLE REFRESH_KEYREF REASON .
Suggestions are derived from relation member roles and non-secret relation fields, including cross-domain relation members that reference the leaked canonical KEYREF; public-looking roles such as
.B id
are not emitted as high-risk refresh targets by themselves.
.TP
.B relation show RELATION_ID
Print one semantic relation without reading secret values.
.TP
.B relation rm RELATION_ID
Remove one semantic relation record.
.TP
.B id KEYREF
Print the resolved v2 secret object UUID for one key without reading its value. This requires a store marked with the v2 format marker. The UUID is an address, not authority.
.TP
.B secret status UUID
Print one v2 secret object's non-secret metadata in the current domain/store without reading its value. UUID lookup is scoped to the current domain/store object view; for cross-domain links, run direct UUID status from the object-owning context. Output includes the object domain/store address, value-access and injection policy, cached and actual refcounts, orphaned state, object payload presence, and legacy value sidecar presence.
.TP
.B fsck [\-\-orphaned] [\-\-dangling] [\-\-refcount] [\-\-repair] [\-\-format v1|v2]
Check the current-domain local store namespace without decrypting secret values. Clean v1 output is
.B ok .
.B --orphaned
reports leftover metadata, searchable key metadata, or tombstones without an authoritative counterpart,
.B --dangling
reports invalid entries, attribute sidecars, searchable key metadata, invalid relation records, or relation members whose referenced keys are no longer visible, and
.B --refcount
is currently a clean no-op for v1 because shared secret objects arrive with store v2. Stores with the v2 format marker are checked with
.B --format v2 ,
which scans the domain-entry to secret-object graph and reports orphaned secrets, standalone object value sidecars, dangling entries or objects, and cached refcount mismatches.
.B --repair
is supported with
.B --format v2 --refcount
and rewrites only cached object refcounts that can be rebuilt from domain entries. It does not delete orphaned secrets, dangling entries, values, or tombstones.
.TP
.B gc [\-\-orphaned] [\-\-dangling] [\-\-dry-run] [\-\-format v2]
Remove unreachable or dangling v2 graph files from the current-domain local store namespace. Without a filter,
.B gc
targets both orphaned and dangling v2 graph artifacts.
.B --dry-run
prints
.B would-remove-*
rows without deleting files. Actual removal prints
.B removed-*
rows. The command removes v2 domain-entry files, orphaned secret-object files, standalone object value sidecars, and sidecars paired with removed secret objects, but does not touch legacy v1 key/value fallback files.
.TP
.B mask KEYREF
Create a local tombstone to hide one inherited key in the current domain.
.TP
.B unmask KEYREF
Remove one local tombstone from the current domain.
.TP
.B exists KEYREF
Check whether one resolved key is visible from the current domain view. This command is intended for shell-friendly branching and does not print secret values.
.TP
.B get KEYREF [\-o|\-\-stdout|\-e|\-\-shellescaped]
Decrypt one resolved key and write it to standard output. Use
.B --shellescaped
to emit a single shell-quoted value for bash-oriented loading. When a locked read fails because no active session is available, the error reports the resolved domain context and prints matching
.B domain status
and
.B unlock
follow-up commands for that domain.
.TP
.B set KEYREF [\-u|\-\-unsafe|\-\-public-value|\-\-secret-value] [\-\-key-visibility always|unlocked] [\-\-value-access unlocked|always] [\-\-bulk-select exclude|named|include] [VALUE|\-i|\-\-stdin|\-e ENVNAME|\-\-env ENVNAME|\-v VALUE|\-\-value VALUE]
Store or update one key in the resolved current domain. Use
.B --unsafe
or
.B --public-value
to write a plaintext entry that remains readable while locked. Use
.B --bulk-select
to set the bulk_select policy for bulk-gated selection.
.TP
.B rm [\-f|\-\-ignore-missing] KEYREF
Remove one key locally or create a tombstone for an inherited key. With
.B --ignore-missing,
an absent key is treated as a successful no-op.
.TP
.B mv SRC_KEYREF DST_KEYREF
Rename or relocate one key between resolved locations.
.TP
.B cp SRC_KEYREF DST_KEYREF
Copy one key into another resolved location.
.TP
.B ln SRC_KEYREF|@UUID DST_KEYREF
Link another key to the same v2 secret object. Source and destination may use explicit KEYREF domain/store qualifiers, including different v2 domains or stores. Updating the value through either key updates the shared object.
Direct source-object links such as
.B ln @UUID DST_KEYREF
are allowed only when the current context can authorize the UUID through an existing visible or unlocked domain entry; object UUID syntax is not a destination operand.
.TP
.B exec [\-\-inject LAYER:KIND=SELECTOR]... [\-\-inject-file FILE]... [\-\-bulk-gate] [\-\-dry-run] [\-\-json] [\-\-json-summary] [\-\-] CMD [ARGS...]
Build a child process environment through supply, route, and final injection layers, then execute the command.
.B --inject
configures ambient, secret, route, or final rules. Repeated options accumulate selectors of the same kind. Multiple selectors in one value are separated by
.BR : .
Use
.B secdat help inject
for the rule vocabulary, selector syntax, YAML shape, and preflight examples.
.B --inject-file
loads a YAML policy file. Later
.B --inject
options override file entries.
.B --bulk-gate
applies the
.B bulk_select
pre-filter before secret supply. Legacy
.BR \-\-inject-gate=sandbox
and
.BR \-\-sandbox-injectable
are rejected with replacement hints.
.B secret:rename
applies one sed-style key-to-environment-name mapping. Keys that do not match keep their original key name as the environment name. Generated environment names must be valid identifiers; empty, duplicate, or otherwise invalid names are rejected during planning.
.B --dry-run
prints the command argv, selected key names, generated environment names, and injection count without running the child or reading secret values. Add
.B --json
to write that preflight report as JSON to standard output.
.B --json-summary
runs the child and writes a JSON audit summary to standard error after child exit, preserving child standard output. It cannot be combined with
.B --dry-run .
JSON output includes supply, route, final plan metadata, and
.B bulk_gate ,
and never includes secret values.
.TP
.B export [\-p GLOBPATTERN|\-\-pattern GLOBPATTERN] [\-\-bulk-gate]
Emit bash-oriented export lines for the current visible keys. The
.B --bulk-gate
option limits output to keys whose effective bulk_select policy allows bulk-gated selection. Keys that are not valid environment variable identifiers are rejected before shell text is emitted.
.TP
.B save FILE
Write the current visible secrets into a passphrase-protected bundle.
.TP
.B load FILE
Load a passphrase-protected bundle into the current domain/store context.
.TP
.B [\-d DIR|\-\-dir DIR] unlock [\-t TTL|\-\-duration TTL] [\-\-until TIME] [\-i|\-\-inherit] [\-v|\-\-volatile|\-r|\-\-readonly] [\-d|\-\-descendants] [\-y|\-\-yes] [\-\-askpass PATH] [\-\-gui]
Start or refresh an authenticated secret session for the current domain. Descendant domains can reuse an unlocked ancestor session, but sibling domains remain locked. With
.B --duration
the command sets the remaining unlock time for the session being created or refreshed. Plain numbers are interpreted as minutes, suffixed combinations such as
.B 1h30m
and
.B 56s
are accepted, and ISO 8601 durations such as
.B PT1H30M
work as relative TTL values. With
.B --until
RFC 3339 timestamps such as
.B 2026-04-21T15:04:05Z
set an absolute expiry target. The two options cannot be combined. When the current domain is already unlocked, plain
.B unlock
refreshes that current domain without prompting for the passphrase again.
With
.B --inherit
the command removes the current domain's local lock when one is present, or clears the current domain's local unlock when no lock is present, and succeeds only when the resulting effective state would become unlocked; it does not create a new local unlock.
With
.B --volatile
the command keeps subsequent secret writes, deletes, tombstones, and read-side resolution changes inside the session agent's memory overlay until
.B lock
clears that overlay, so dry runs and read-only filesystems do not touch the persisted store. With
.B lock --save
supported local volatile overlay changes are written through to the persisted store before the session is locked. Current volatile sessions remove only overlay-created tombstones; persisted tombstones and v2 local-entry deletions still require a normal writable session.
With
.B --readonly
the command reuses an existing master key but rejects mutating commands while leaving reads, listing, export-like operations, and status available.
With
.B --descendants
the command performs an explicit subtree unlock for the resolved domain and its registered descendants, creating local descendant unlocks where needed while leaving local locks intact; broader-scope unlocks require confirmation unless
.B --yes
is present. If an orphaned registered descendant exists under the target subtree, descendant unlock fails closed and prints recovery guidance for
.B domain move
or
.BR "domain delete" .
With
.B --gui
the command forces passphrase prompts through the selected askpass helper even when a terminal is available. This is a prompt-provider selection only; secdat does not store the passphrase in an OS Keychain.
If some descendant domains under the unlocked branch remain shadowed by local locks, plain
.B unlock
prints follow-up inspection and descendant-specific unlock commands using the correct
.B --dir
targets. Before prompting, the command reports the resolved domain it is about to unlock. When no registered domain applies, that output uses the presentation label
.B *default*
to mean that no registered domain resolved and the top-level inherited fallback scope is active. When descendants exist under that branch, reusable descendants may be summarized count-only while descendants that remain locked are listed explicitly.
.TP
.B passwd [\-\-askpass PATH]
Change the passphrase used to wrap the persistent master key.
.TP
.B [\-d DIR|\-\-dir DIR] inherit
Remove the current domain's local lock when one is present, or clear the current domain's local unlock when no lock is present, without checking the resulting effective state.
.TP
.B [\-d DIR|\-\-dir DIR] lock
Clear the current domain's local unlock. When the current domain is already locked, plain
.B lock
returns success without changing local state.
.TP
.B [\-d DIR|\-\-dir DIR] status [\-q|\-\-quiet|\-\-json]
Report whether secret material is available from the current domain scope. Use
.B --json
for stable machine-readable state while preserving the normal status exit-code contract.
.TP
.B store create|delete|ls|migrate|finalize-migration
Manage store namespaces and v1 to v2 migration inside the resolved current domain.
.TP
.B store ls [GLOBPATTERN] [\-p GLOBPATTERN|\-\-pattern GLOBPATTERN] [\-\-json]
List store namespaces in the resolved current domain. Use
.B --json
for a machine-readable store list and store count.
.TP
.B secret status
Inspect v2 secret-object metadata by UUID without reading secret values.
.TP
.B store migrate STORE \-\-to-format v2 [\-\-dry-run]
Validate one v1 store and print the v2 migration plan. Without
.B --dry-run ,
write side-by-side v2 domain-entry/object graph files, verify them with v2 fsck, mark the store as v2, and leave v1 value files in place. Output includes domain-entry, secret-object, sidecar, tombstone, public-value, encrypted-value, bulk_select entry, and issue counts.
Some v2-only errors print this dry-run command as a hint; set
.B SECDAT_SUPPRESS_MIGRATION_HINTS=1
to hide those hints.
.TP
.B store finalize-migration STORE \-\-from-format v1 [\-\-dry-run]
Inspect legacy v1 fallback files left in a migrated v2 store. The dry-run prints
.B would-remove-*
rows for legacy entry or metadata files that are no longer needed, and
.B cannot-finalize
rows for legacy entry files that still provide the only value material because the v2 secret object has not yet been rewritten with an object-owned payload. Without
.B --dry-run ,
remove removable legacy fallback files only when no blockers remain; if any blocker is present, report it and remove nothing.
The intended sequence is migrate dry-run, migrate, v2 fsck, rewrite or remove fallback-backed values, finalize dry-run, then finalize.
.TP
.B domain create|delete|move|status
Manage domain roots and resolution state.
.TP
.B domain move \-\-from OLD_ROOT [\-\-to NEW_ROOT] [\-\-allow-same-root]
Update a registered domain root path and root identity metadata without changing the domain ID or deleting stored secrets. If
.B \-\-to
is omitted, the destination is the scoped directory from
.B \-\-dir
or the current working directory. Moving to the same recreated root requires
.BR \-\-allow-same-root .
.TP
.B domain ls [\-l|\-\-long] [\-a|\-\-inherited] [\-A|\-\-ancestors] [\-R|\-\-descendants] [GLOBPATTERN] [\-p GLOBPATTERN|\-\-pattern GLOBPATTERN] [\-\-json]
List domain roots around the scoped directory. Use
.B -l
or
.B --long
to add the same key-source, effective-state, effective-state-source, store-count, visible-key-count, and wrapped-key summary fields used by
.B domain status .
.B -a
or
.B --inherited
adds the effective inherited parent chain for the current scope, including an emphasized
.B *default*
row when the chain reaches the user-global fallback scope.
When long format is written to a terminal, shared parent directories are shown once as a heading and very long domain labels wrap before the metadata columns. Non-terminal long-format output keeps the tab-separated full-path rows.
Use
.B --json
for stable rows with root, key source, effective state/source, related domain, expiry, remaining seconds, store count, visible key count, orphaned-domain state, and wrapped-key presence. Orphaned rows are reported as not unlocked with orphaned key and effective source fields even when an ancestor unlock exists.
.TP
.B domain status [\-q|\-\-quiet|\-\-json]
Report the resolved domain for the current context along with store count, visible key count, key source, wrapped-key presence, and effective access state. Effective access distinguishes environment, local unlock, inherited unlock, local lock, and inherited-lock outcomes.
New domains record root-directory device/inode identity; when that metadata exists and the registered path now points at a different directory or a symbolic link,
.B domain status
and normal domain resolution fail closed with an identity mismatch. Device/inode identity is a filesystem identity hint, not a cryptographic directory identity; unusual inode reuse or weak filesystem identity reporting can still require operator review.
Stale registered roots remain visible in
.B domain ls
long output as orphaned-domain rows and can be recovered with
.B domain move
or discarded with
.BR "domain delete" .
Explicit
.B domain move
preserves the domain ID, so a still-active session scoped to that domain ID remains effective after recovery.
When a session is active, the output also includes the remaining unlock time in a compact form such as
.B 1h59m
or
.B 1m32s.
Use
.B --json
for stable machine-readable fields such as resolved_domain, resolution_error, key_source, effective_source, counts, related_domain, and wrapped_master_key_present. Top-level
.B status --json
sets resolution_error to
.B domain_resolution_failed
when the current directory cannot be resolved as a valid domain context, distinct from an ordinary locked state where resolution_error is null.
When no registered domain applies, user-facing output shows an emphasized fallback label such as
.B *default*
rather than any internal sentinel or a misleading registered-domain path. That label means no registered domain resolved and the top-level inherited fallback scope is active.
Use
.B --ancestors
to keep only the current domain and its ancestor side, and
.B --descendants
to keep only the current domain and its descendant side.
.SH SHELL INTEGRATION
To load exported values into the current bash shell, use one of:

.nf
When a session is active, the output also includes the remaining unlock time in a compact form such as
.B 1h59m
or
.B 1m32s.
eval "$(secdat export)"
source <(secdat export)
. <(secdat export)
.fi

Plain
.B . $(secdat export)
is not valid because the dot command expects a file path, not command text.

Bash completion source is provided in the repository at
.B completions/secdat.bash ,
and
.B make install
installs it for automatic loading as
.B secdat
under the system bash-completion directory. The installed script asks
.B secdat __completion --bash
for the current command and option surface instead of duplicating a static command table, which keeps bash completion aligned with new CLI additions while preserving the normal fallback that treats unknown leading operands as keys. Automatic loading still depends on bash-completion being installed and initialized by the shell, and in-tree or custom-prefix testing still needs
.B secdat
to resolve
.B libsecdat .
The man page is installed into the normal
.B man1
path. For direct system installs into standard library directories such as
.B /usr/local/lib ,
the install step also refreshes the dynamic linker cache with
.B ldconfig
when available so the installed
.B secdat
binary can resolve
.B libsecdat
immediately.
.P
The optional GUI askpass helper is not installed by default. Run
.B make install-askpass-helper
to install it under
.B libexec/secdat
for the configured prefix, then pass that path through
.B \-\-askpass
or
.B SECDAT_ASKPASS
when using
.B unlock \-\-gui .
.SH PASSPHRASE SOURCES
By default,
.B unlock ,
.B passwd ,
.B save ,
and
.B load
read passphrases from a terminal. For explicit non-interactive use,
.B SECDAT_MASTER_KEY_PASSPHRASE
may provide the current master-key passphrase to
.B unlock
and
.B passwd
before falling back to prompts.
.B unlock \-\-askpass PATH
and
.B passwd \-\-askpass PATH
choose an executable prompt helper for that command.
.B SECDAT_ASKPASS ,
or
.B SSH_ASKPASS
when
.B SECDAT_ASKPASS
is unset, may provide a prompt helper when standard input is not a terminal and
.B \-\-askpass
was not given. The helper is executed directly with the prompt text as its first argument and must print the passphrase on stdout.

This is an explicit override path, not the recommended default, because environment variables may be exposed through process inspection or shell history.
.P
New wrapped master-key writes use PBKDF2 with 200000 iterations by default.
.B SECDAT_MASTER_KEY_PBKDF2_ITERATIONS
may set the iteration count for
.B unlock
bootstrap and
.B passwd
rewrap writes to an integer from 200000 through 10000000. Existing wrapped keys are read with the iteration count stored in the key file, so changing the environment does not break older keys or rewrite them on read.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B docs/secdat-spec.md
Specification and design notes.
.TP
.B docs/secdat.1
This manual page source as tracked in the repository.
.TP
.B .github/copilot-instructions.md
Repository-local implementation workflow and project rules.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report issues at:
.B https://github.com/mako10k/secdat/issues

Repository homepage:
.B https://github.com/mako10k/secdat
.SH AUTHOR
Makoto Katsumata
.RI < mako10k@mk10.org >
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
secdat set API_TOKEN --value token-123
secdat get API_TOKEN --stdout
secdat get API_TOKEN --shellescaped
secdat meta set API_TOKEN service billing
secdat meta search service=bill*
secdat meta mark-leaked BILLING_PASSWORD
secdat relation set billing-login --kind credential --member id=BILLING_ID --member password=BILLING_PASSWORD --security combination-sensitive
secdat relation search kind=credential security=combination-*
secdat relation suggest-refresh BILLING_PASSWORD
secdat relation show billing-login
secdat --dir ~/project domain create
secdat --dir ~/project-restored domain move --from ~/project
secdat --dir ~/project/service domain status
secdat --dir ~/project/service domain status --json
secdat status --json
secdat --dir ~/project --store app export
source <(secdat --dir ~/project --store app export)
secdat help inject
secdat exec --inject secret:only=APP_* --dry-run --json -- env
SECDAT_MASTER_KEY_PASSPHRASE=secret secdat unlock
secdat unlock --askpass /path/to/helper
make install-askpass-helper
SECDAT_ASKPASS=/usr/local/libexec/secdat/secdat-askpass secdat unlock --gui
secdat unlock --gui --askpass ./contrib/secdat-askpass
SECDAT_MASTER_KEY_PBKDF2_ITERATIONS=250000 secdat passwd
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bash (1)
